The following is brief biography for Rajendra Adhikari who is a Researcher III-Software Development at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory:
Rajendra Adhikari joined NREL in 2019. His background is in building energy management systems and demand response. Prior to joining NREL, he worked as the developer for the building energy management open source software (BEMOSS) at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. His PhD research focused on HVAC control for load reduction and regulation services, as well as residential demand response simulation. 


Rajendra Adhikari received a Bachelor degree in  Electrical Engineering from the  Tribhuvan University. Rajendra Adhikari received a PhD degree in  Electrical Engineering from the  Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. Rajendra Adhikari received a Master degree in  Electrical Engineering from the  Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. 
Rajendra Adhikari has contributed to the following publications: ResStock Dataset 2024.1 Documentation, AI-Driven Smart Community Control for Accelerating PV Adoption and Enhancing Grid Resilience, End-Use Load Profiles for the U.S. Building Stock: Methodology and Results of Model Calibration, Validation, and Uncertainty Quantification: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy (EERE), End-Use Savings Shapes: Public Dataset Release for Residential Round 1, Load-Driven Interactions Between Energy Efficiency and Demand Response on Regional Grid Scales, Stochastic Simulation of Occupant-Driven Energy Use in a Bottom-Up Residential Building Stock Model, End-Use Load Profiles for the U.S. Building Stock: Technical Advisory Group Meeting #11, Stochastic Simulation of Residential Building Occupant-Driven Energy Use in a Bottom-Up Model of the U.S. Housing Stock: arXiv:2111.01881 [eess.SY], The Los Angeles 100% Renewable Energy Study (LA100): Chapter 3. Electricity Demand Projections, US Building Energy Efficiency and Flexibility as an Electric Grid Resource, Modeling the Interaction Between Energy Efficiency and Demand Response on Regional Grid Scales: Preprint, Putting Our Industry's Data to Work: A Case Study of Large-Scale Data Aggregation: Preprint.
Rajendra Adhikari has worked on projects with Elaina Present, Lixi Liu, Joe Robertson, Philip White, Chioke Harris, Andrew Speake, Scott Horowitz, Janet Reyna, Noel Merket, Anthony Fontanini, Rawad El Kontar, Carlo Bianchi.