The following is brief biography for Sherin Ann Abraham who is a Researcher III-Electrical Engineering at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory:
Google Scholar
ResearchGate
Sherin Ann Abraham is a research engineer in the Distribution Edge Group within the Grid Planning and Analysis Center. Her work focuses on identifying ways to build and operate a distribution grid that is equitable, resilient, reliable, accessible, and affordable throughout this clean energy transition. Her research topics includes distribution grid planning, techno-economic analysis of distributed energy resources (DER), and data mining applications in power systems. 
Sherin Ann Abraham's Professional Experience includes the following:
Researcher, NREL (2019–­present)
Graduate Intern, NREL (2018)
Graduate Teaching Assistant, Virginia Tech (2017–2019)
Engineer, Trident Ltd. (2014–2016) 
Sherin Ann Abraham's Research Interests includes the following:
Electric distribution system planning
Data mining applications in power systems
Techno-economic analysis for grid-edge technologies integration, Professional Experience, Researcher, NREL (2019–­present)
Graduate Intern, NREL (2018)
Graduate Teaching Assistant, Virginia Tech (2017–2019)
Engineer, Trident Ltd. (2014–2016) 
Sherin Ann Abraham received a Bachelor degree in  Electrical and Electronics Engineering from the  Vellore Institute of Technology. Sherin Ann Abraham received a Master degree in  Electrical Engineering from the  Virginia Tech. 
Sherin Ann Abraham has contributed to the following publications: Major Drivers of Long-Term Distribution Transformer Demand, Assessing the Optimality of LinDist3Flow for Optimal Tap Selection of Step Voltage Regulators in Unbalanced Distribution Networks, Federal Aviation Administration Vertiport Electrical Infrastructure Study, LA100 Equity Strategies, LA100 Equity Strategies. Chapter 12: Distribution Grid Upgrades for Equitable Resilience and Solar, Storage, and Electric Vehicle Access, LA100 Equity Strategies. Executive Summary, Assessing the Optimality of LinDist3Flow for Optimal Tap Selection of Step Voltage Regulators in Unbalanced Distribution Networks: Preprint, Generating Sequential PV Deployment Scenarios for High Renewable Distribution Grid Planning, Generating Sequential PV Deployment Scenarios for High Renewable Distribution Grid Planning: Preprint, PV Hosting Capacity Estimation: Experiences with Scalable Framework, PV Hosting Capacity Estimation: Experiences with Scalable Framework; Preprint, Use of Operating Agreements and Energy Storage to Reduce Photovoltaic Interconnection Costs: Conceptual Framework, Use of Operating Agreements and Energy Storage to Reduce Photovoltaic Interconnection Costs: Technical and Economic Analysis, The Los Angeles 100% Renewable Energy Study (LA100): Chapter 5. Utility Options for Local Solar and Storage, The Los Angeles 100% Renewable Energy Study (LA100): Chapter 7. Distribution System Analysis, Development and Clustering of Rate-Oriented Load Metrics for Customer Price-Plan Analysis, Development and Clustering of Rate-Oriented Load Metrics for Customer Price-Plan Analysis: Preprint.
Sherin Ann Abraham has worked on projects with Shibani Ghosh, Wenbo Wang, Bharatkumar Solanki, Priti Paudyal, Kwami Senam Sedzro, Yiyun Yao, Chin-Yao Chang, Jiyu Wang, Xinyang Zhou, Wesley Jones, Jon Maack, Matthew Reynolds.