The following is brief biography for Zia Abdullah who is a Laboratory Program Manager III-Biological Science at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory:
As the Biomass Laboratory Program Manager, Zia Abdullah fosters NREL’s relationship with the U.S. Department of Energy’s Bioenergy Technologies Office (BETO) program. In addition, he works with senior lab management to set the strategic agenda for NREL's biomass portfolio and with research staff to execute against the research strategy.
He is a mechanical engineer with extensive experience and accomplishments in thermochemically and biochemically converting biomass to fuels and chemicals. His experience includes more than 25 years of research and development in biomass conversion, as well as problem-solving, new product development, business development, and project management.
Zia’s technical leadership experience in R&D projects related to biomass include:
Fast pyrolysis processes for the production of bio-oil with target composition for bioproducts and bioenergy production
Optimization of biomass gasification processes via modification of fuel and carrier gas injection
Design of refractory and pressure vessel for a commercial-scale biomass gasifier
Quantification and extraction of key chemicals from bio-oils
Biomass pretreatment for fermentation
Separation of biomass into lignin, hemicellulose, and cellulose
Conversion of hemicellulose into higher value products via fermentation routes
Design of gas-liquid fermentation reactors
Melt spun carbon fibers from lignin
Mathematical modeling of biomass gasification and biomass boilers
Combustion system design in large biomass boilers.
Zia has won, managed, and led multiple large, competitive projects funded by government agencies. He also has developed close relationships with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and BETO, as well as universities, industry, and other DOE laboratories. 
Zia Abdullah's Professional Experience includes the following:
Biomass Laboratory Program Manager, NREL (2016–present)
Chief Technology Officer, Versa Renewables & Equinox Chemicals (2015–2016)
Institute Fellow, Battelle Memorial Institute (2009–2015)
Engineering Advisor/Institute Fellow, Weyerhaeuser Company (1998–2008)
Co-Founder and CEO, Process Simulations Ltd (1994–1998) 

Zia Abdullah received a PhD degree in  Mechanical Engineering from the  University of Ottawa. Zia Abdullah received a Bachelor degree in  Mechanical Engineering from the  University of Ottawa. Zia Abdullah received a Master degree in  Business Administration: Technology Management from the  University of Washington. 
Zia Abdullah has contributed to the following publications: A Roadmap Toward a Sustainable Aviation Ecosystem, Challenges and Opportunities in Decarbonizing the U.S. Energy System: Article No. 112939, Realizing "Net-Zero-Carbon" Sustainable Aviation Fuel, Towards Net-Zero Sustainable Aviation Fuel with Wet Waste-Derived Volatile Fatty Acids: Article No. e2023008118, What it is Going to Take to Get to 35B Gallons of SAF by 2050: Innovative Technologies and Scaleup Approaches for SAF Production (Citation Only), Wet Waste for Sustainable Aviation Fuel (Citation Only).
Zia Abdullah has worked on projects with Nicholas Wimer, Regis Thedin, Xuhui Feng, Thomas Foust, Michael Sprague, Marc Day, Jun Hee Jang.